Sequim Bay seasonal summary
================
PR
2025-05-15

## Purpose

The datasets collected by the MCRLdata pipeline comprise a comprehensive
suite of aquatic and meterological datasets that are useful across the
MCRL mission space. **This markdown provides a brief summary of seasonal
patterns for a range of parameters deemed of most use to boating ops**,
but also of potential use to various research activities. This content
is targeted to folks familiar with the system, but with just enough
detail that folks not familiar will hopefully understand.

## Water levels

Tides in Sequim Bay are semi-diurnal, meaning two high tides per day,
but this pattern is often muted such that tides appear closer to
diurnal. Water levels change roughly 2-3 meters between high and low
tides, though this varies considerably between spring spring tides.

Seasonally, high tides generally occur between noon and the early
afternoon in Jan-April, and generally get earlier, occuring near
midnight in September. Low tides are generally occur in the afternoon /
early evening in the summer (*Note that all times are in PST, and do not
account for daylight savings*).

![](../figures/tidal_depth_by_month_and_tod.png)

## Water velocities

**TBD on getting velocity data organized**

## Annual Wind

Wind speeds average 1.7 m/s, ranging from calm (4% of the time) to \>16
m/s. Strongest winds are to the SE, and most common wind directions are
S/SE followed by NW/N/NE.

![](../figures/wind_plots/annual.png)

## Seasonal Wind

Seasonal Summary (click tabs below for seasonal plots):

- Spring - avg: 1.9 m/s, calm: 2.9%, most common: N/S, strongest: SE

- Summer - avg: 1.4 m/s, calm: 4.1%, most common: N, strongest: N

- Fall - avg: 1.5 m/s, calm: 4.8%, most common: S, strongest: SE

- Winter - avg: 1.8 m/s, calm: 3.6%, most common: S, strongest: SE

## Air and water temperatures

### Air Temperature

Average air temperatures span ~5ºC during the winter to ~15ºC during the
summer, with daily ranges (max - min) of ~5ºC during the winter to ~8ºC
during the summer. Daily highs typically occur later in the spring
(15:00) and summer (16:00) than fall and winter (14:00), while daily
lows are consistently 4:00-5:00.

![](../figures/air_temperature.png)

**more coming soon once I clean water temp**

## Photosyntheticially Active Radiation

**coming soon once I clean em**

## Salinity

**coming soon once I clean em**

## Chlorophyll and Dissolved Oxygen

**stretch goal**
